However, in the system we are referring to a class of application and system that they can withstand
a measure of determination while remaining available, which means they are at the very minimum of down
time and they don't need a regular human intervention and their ability to self-heal or to recover from
failure or even to roll over to another secondary source in an acceptable amount of form.
Now those percentage of uptime and percentage of downtime, we use them to basically classify a service,
whether the service is five nines available or two nines available or one nine available.
For example, if we describe a system to be for nine US available, this means it can be accepted to
be down for the maximum of 52 minutes and 6 seconds, which is equivalent to or equal to 8.6 seconds
in.
One thing can be we could use elastic load balancing that distributes incoming application traffic across
multiple easy to instances and containers, IP addresses and the function to keep this in your mind.
Even if you have a containerised application still you can use elastic load balancing those elastic
load balance.
They can be extended operating at the public subnet and they can be internal operating as a private
subnet, which means the user or you and do they want be able to access them from the public end of
each load balancer receive a unique domain name system and it can be recognized response to any to in
it because load bands are ones up to the target group of the load balancer.
It can tag each instance which not responding to the has to be healthy or an unhealthy instance of the
load balancing.
As you know from Lab six in the cloud practitioner, it's going to be replaced by any new instances
with the open a of or to scalar in the earth.
There is a three times of load balancing.
There is the application load balancer which operate with Citibank, Mississippi as the protocol.
It's very flexible for application management and it can use an advanced load.
Balancing that traffic via has to be an eclipse and it's normally operate at the request level or layer
seven, which is the application layer in the old.
As you work with network load balancer, we are looking now to an extreme performance.
And remember network balancer only operates at layer four.
So you need to operate network balancer with that DCP Traffic three oh is not going to operate as application
layer.
It is a very ultra high performance and with support of a static IP addresses of your application,
it can load balancer, TCP, UDP or even TLC traffic and operate the connection level off layer.
If you have an old application or an old infrastructure which needed a load balancing of both application
layer of protocol and layer four protocol, then you need to look at that classic load because the classic
load balancer will operate at 60 degrees and it's also support ECP and secure socket layer interface
as it can load balance across multiple 82 instances and it operate at both the requisite level and the
connect.
You can implement a highly available system when you have the ability to start with.
At least two available is on is the first resources in the first zone goes down.
Then with the aid of load balancer, you can read that your traffic to the resources that you have in
this second availability zone and this is a good example of a highly available architecture.
As you can see, we have an interactive traffic coming to the intermediate wave which will be redirected
to the elastic load balancer.
The elastic load balancer will distribute the traffic between those easy to in essence in the multi
easy depending on how busy and how capacity each one of them is getting.
So it's most likely is going to fit the traffic between.
Then you can have an internal load balancing which carries out the traffic from your repair to your
application in the same way it will distribute the traffic in an even way.
This is an example of a highly available architecture where you can use the elastic load balancing for
your own benefit.
Now let us look to Amazon Rule 53.
Another 63 is a highly available and scalable cloud DNS.
It can be used to terminate a domain name, for example, like in the US to come into an IP address,
which is the main public IP of the.
It can connect to your user request to your infrastructure and can be configured to load the traffic
to the endpoints or even to make sure that your infrastructure are running in a healthy state across
multiple regions.
It can also help you to register and buy your domain and it has multiple routing options that you need
to understand for you to.
Three Support multiple routing policy that we will describe now in Route 53.
There is multiple supported routing, and we are going to explain each one of those in detail because
they are very important for passing the exam.
Both exam the solution architect and the cloud practitioner.
So the first thing we want to do is to see how we can create a domain name in Route 53.
So let us now go and create a domain name and that will show you how you can create a domain name for
your business and for your organization if you need to have a domain name.
As you can see now I am in the management console and I want to go to Route 53.
Once I go to Route 53, now Route 53, if you go to the dashboard of Route 53 and you click on Get Started,
it will give you all the starting points that you can use to create and to work with the Route 53.
Now, let's say I have an organization, I want to call it a WAC training and I want to register a domain
name for that organization.
So I'm going to select Registrar Domain and then we will click on Get Started.
Now you give me a list of all the available domain.
You can choose the prices per year depending on your need and depending on your extension.
Let's say I'm going to call this academy, so I'm going to call this areas training and this will be
a domain name, dot academy.
Okay, now I need to check that this domain name is available.
If it's not available, it's going to propose different domain names that I could use.
It seems to be available as training dot info, but maybe it is a bit expensive.
So I'm going to change this to something else.
Let's call this a free a WAC train.
So this is going to be I'm free ABC training you could call it based on your business that you want
to create a domain name for it and you can see free training dot net.
It will cost me $11 per year so I could add this to my account and then I click on Continue and then
you specify the details of your payment information to whom this business and domain will be registered.
So normally you need to provide, you have addresses and you click on Continue and you check.
Now the next thing I want to show you is basically how we can create a health check.
So before we do that, let us have a demo application.
And in this demo application, I'm going to use a simple format for my application.
It will be an easy to understand stunning assembled web server.
So let us go now to Easy two and I have it here running on a different system.
You just go now to the AC two and if you go to my easy to, you will find that I have a demo application
running, which is the same cafe application that we use than we use in all of my labs and all of that.
The Academy.
Now this instance is running on this public IP.
So if you open this in a new tab, it will give you a hello from a server.
And if you basically pop this extension, which is a mom and pop cafe, you will find the same interface
that we used then.
And as you can see here, the IP address of my easy to and it is available in us is one eight.
Now what I want to do is to create I have check from Route 53 because I'm not sure that this instance
is healthy.
And once it's not healthy, I might just get an alert to my email and that alert will be sent so I can
basically have a secondary hosting zone for my application in a three as a static website, for example.
So let's go now to Amazon, Route 53 from Newtown, because I want to keep the easy to understand,
to show you later on what I'm going to do with that.
Now, there is in this particular environment, I have a domain name, but it just I'm going to use
this for this thing and to demonstrate the different routing that we have in Route 53, it has to go
to health check and we create a health check.
I'm going to call this primary and this primary is going to check an endpoint.
And that is the end point that I'm going to check here.
So I'm going to go back to in point, it's an IP address and the IP address of my easy to instance,
I just need to copy it from here.
Now this is going to be my instance, IP address and the slash path is going to be because I always
reach my website using this is slash path.
So I'm going to basically put the same here on the path.
So I'm going to.
To go back and base now in the advanced configuration.
I want this to be fast because I want to show you this as soon as possible.
And the failure threshold, which means Route 53, will declare this endpoint unhealthy after two Failure
of Health Check.
You could also include latency graph and you could basically have a customized matching for your string
if you are using an API.
We will see this later on with the API Gateway.
Click next and we want to create an alarm and we want to send this alarm to our email address.
This is going to be the channel email address that we use for most administration.
So let us go back now to our immune system.
And we basically have an existing since we are going to create a new one and we will call it primary
AC two down just to let me know that this is not healthy and I wanted to send it to this email and create
a health check.
Now, after a few minutes, you should be able to receive an education to your email address saying
that you have to subscribe to this topic.
Wait for a few minutes until this can give us a value or to show that there is unhealthy instances.
So let us wait a few minutes.
We will receive an email to our email address.
So I have received the email that I have to subscribe to this topic in a WAC notification SMS service.
I will confirm this is all you need to do just to click on compat.
Now let us test that this thing is working.
We will go to the instant state and we will stop the this maybe accidental deletion of the AC to maybe
an accidental stopping of the AC two or a crash of the web server.
I want to make sure that I will receive an email that telling me my EC2 is not available.
America Summer cannot see now the website could see now this is going to give me five or five very soon,
so let us wait.
And once I receive the email I will share it with you.
As you can see now, the AC two instance is giving me five cannot be reached and I will wait now for
this notification to arrive to my email.
Now how we can prevent that in Amazon, Route 53.
This is what we are going to discuss in the next topic.
We have to create what we call Route 53 routing policy and the routing policy, prevent an accident
like this to happen in our infrastructure.
And as you can see now, I receive an email saying that your primary easy two instance is down, which
means I have to go back and I will make sure to start and to reboot the instance.
Now let me just the first page.
Now I have another instance here that we are going to use it in the demo.
We will see that this machine is fully restored.
So as I say, to prevent such scenario we have in Amazon, Route 53, multiple routing policy, they
are supported in old 53.
And we will discuss each one of them and I will show you how you configure each one of those in the
management console.
We have the first one which is similar routing.
It has a single server environment with single domain.
And you want to basically tell route 53 that my domain name WW bastard i.e. a training that IEEE or
dot com is pointing to this IP as simple as that.
So let me show you how we can create symbol routing.
So with symbol routing, we have a single server environment.
We have our primary, which is an Amazon EC2 instance here and we are just pointing the record which
is the W w w record to a type A record to this IP address.
This is what we mean by symbol.
So let me show you how you can do that.
I will keep this health check there because we will need it later on.
You go to the hostage zone and you will find that this record created once we register with Route 53,
our to me so that I want to select it and we will create that.
It will be in the routing click next.
Now I want to define as routing if it will be WW for this domain name here, which is the domain name
I register, it will be a record type A and now the end point is going to be an IP address.
And what is my IPA?
I want it to be this easy to instance here, the first in this go back, paste it and define SMB routing
and create a simple as that.
Now once you put and you copy this domain name, instead of accessing your website by accessing the
IP address, I want to be able to access it via the domain name, which is what Route 53?
Give me any specific I want to be able to access this Caffey website with all the information.
As you can see here within the routing, this website now is said from the AC two instance in US East
one, and this is the IP of the AC two instance.
Now the second type, what we call we did the round robin being equated the roping routing I have.
A primary AC two instance in the first season.
And they have a secondary easy to innocence in the second debate.
Now, normally with Route 53, we do this across multiple regions.
Why?
To guarantee that we have a decent disaster recovery.
And the point here with wasted round robin is very simple.
We want to split the traffic based on the way.
So 75% of the traffic I want you to come to the fair is you do in the first zone and the 25% of the
traffic.
I want it to go to the second easy to in the second zone with me show you how you can do that.
This means this and make sure when you create a domain name in route 53 don't ever delete and as and
so a record this is the domain name system that you will use with your domain when you register.
And this is the authoritative record of your domain name system.
Both.
Don't ever delete those.
Now create the weighted in the way that it's going to be the same the record name is going to be.
WW And the record time is an A, which means it's an IP address.
Could also specify a DNS other DNS information.
You could also specify elastic IP, elastic beanstalk or elastic load balancer DNS name.
You also specify S3 bucket if you have your website in a static website, also domestic.
Now we want to define the way you did that.
So the first definition I want the first IP address, which is, as you see here in this diagram, 54.2
25.17.0.
I wanted to take three out of four traffic.
I want it to come to this easy two and one fourth of the traffic.
I want it to go to this easy.
So I will go back, copy the IP address of my easy to instance one and paste it here.
The way is going to be three and this is will accept a value between 02255.
I have a health check which is the primary which can basically help a lot when we define this.
Now we need to specify a recorded bus.
Let me call this and this is going to be w one and lets me define another one.
It will be an endpoint, but this time I want that endpoint to take the traffic to my second easy two
instance, this IP and the waste of the traffic.
I want it 1 to 4.
The health check is not going to be any health check because we don't have health check associated with
a secondary instance.
So we're going to call this again bars dash w-2 and define and then you will click on it.
And this is really create a health check for you.
Now this means if you go to your website, most of the traffic will be sad from the first ability zone.
Unless there is a very busy traffic going to the abilities on a then you will be routed to the second
of it.
So this is very handy when you have, for example, a pilots like disaster recovery.
You have a tiny, easy two instances to support your system and you have your main infrastructure on
a premise data center, and you want to make sure if there is any issue with your primary to route everything
back to that second.
Now, let me go back and show you the next one.
But first, let us delete those.
You have to delete them.
And this time I'm going to show you the latency about with latency routing.
Now, Route 53 will decide how to send your traffic based on the latency value we are getting.
So if we have, for example, a latency of 125 milliseconds going to the primary, easy to then Route
53 will use this link because the secondary is giving us 225 millisecond how we can define this in old
53 based on the latency that is, some go back to record choose latency routing click next.
It is again w w I have an e record time.
You could also put the 15 to 15 seconds instead of 300 seconds in order to fast test this configuration,
define it will be an IP address and the same thing we will do.
We have an IP address, the primary IP address go back based here in which reason?
Because the latency record need to test based on the region.
Now if you notice, here I am in North Virginia, so I go back and choose North 50.
I think you should put us first if I have a primary health check because this is from where Route 53,
we get the latency value.
If we get it from the health check that we do this, we call this bus dash and dash one.
Then I will add a new latency record.
The same thing is going to be for the same region.
Now normally, as I say, again, normally we will have two different regions to deal with Route 53.
I'm going just to copy the same IP address that I have in my second ability zone, and I did no control
over this.
Guys, if I have that omission, I will create two easy to in two different region to demonstrate this
and there is no logic associated.
Again, this will be bars dash and latency dash tool which is required and then you click on it create.
Sometimes this record will do location routing.
I want a very simple configuration.
I want based on my customer base, I want to route them to my primary or secondary infrastructure.
So in this case here, I want the Indian users, my users in India, I want them to come to the first
primary zone, the primary host, the first AC two, and the Irish customers.
I want them to come to that second.
Easy to understand that it is not in the same way you do this, you go, you create a record and you
choose geo location, you put w, w and now the record is a again and you defined your location.
You choose the end point as I see the first AC two instance, one I want for my customers in India.
And you could choose a continent, you could use a specific country.
I'm going to choose a specific country just to show you guys how this is going to work with the primary
and this is going to be bars geo 1 to 1 to hopefully nobody is using the same idea.
And then I want to define the one for my Irish customers.
This is going to be the second AC two instance IP address.
I come back here based and this will be Ireland and no health check and this is going to be bars to
you demo 33434 symbol undefined and this is a created successfully.
Now let me show you so I see my Irish customer on my IP now in Ireland, so I should be reaching to
this easy to instance for four, which is in my second advertisement.
So if I refresh this page, I'm not using the records guys, and that's why I'm not getting the value.
You need to go to this link here, slash, and you can see I'm getting the response from one B this
may show you.
Now let me connect to a VPN to India.
Now this is a VPN just to test.
It's a free VPN, guys.
You can use it just to test.
Okay, so my VPN connection is active.
Now let us test.
As I said again, my Indian customers needs to come to 50 for the two, two, two, five, five as well.
So if you refresh the page now, you will be asked to go to us is one eight again guys normally we do
this from multiple region so that was you and I'm going to demonstrate is pain over and feel over is
very simple concept with Phil over routing I want to make sure if my primary easy to in a sense is down
for any reason I want to fail over to my EC2 in the second the way it is now.
Normally if you can't afford depending on your disaster recovery plan, what you could do is to create
an S3 bucket and it will be your secondary posting of your website just to display a nice message to
your user.
So let me show you how you can do fail over.
Remember, you have to have a health check for fail over to work in a proper way.
Go to the create record and with fail over click next and this will be WW again with me for this 15
seconds because I want to show you this in action and let us define if it over first is going to be
my primary record type and the primary IP I have is this IP here and the health check is a primary.
And again, let me do that.
I fail over and this may give a value now the second fail or what is going to happen in the secondary
and in the secondary?
I don't have a health check.
Okay.
So there is no health check here.
And this is going to be based dash, dash seven, seven, eight.
And if I forget to face the IP address, so let us go copy the IP and we paste it here.
I'm sorry that this video is might be very long for you guys to see, but I will leave the timestamp
so you can basically go to that section that you are interested in, the mouse, click on it, create
record and now my record is there.
Let me show you this in action.
But before I do anything, I want to go back to my health check and open it in a new tab.
It was 31 minutes ago when I basically turned off that easy to innocence and then it came back down.
Now then the status is okay.
You could also see the latency.
The latency was about 100 milliseconds for TCP connection and this is basically will work and it will
be actively promoting the traffic between your multi hosting and multi region based on the results,
go and test the latency when you go to that fast, easy to instance and we will stop you will get an
email similar to this one and immediately you will see two in this.
Will be voted the secondary record to your second easy to an.
So now this is for me is stop with me check is still with me and go to my left side now and the difference
I am in one way notice that and now it should be changing me failing over automatically to the second
the easy to in the second region or in the second reason for our demo.
But in general, you should do this infrastructure to differently.
Now, remember, I put in the health check, I put 15/2 and also in the configuration in my records.
I also put the fail over with 15 seconds.
Just to keep this in mind, the TTL is basically time to live.
How much the your content will be cast in?
There was 53.
So if you want the faster response, you want to have a smaller value if you are just this thing.
But for production you normally put a higher value like 300 seconds.
We go back now it is not available.
It was declaring the first primary posting of my infrastructure is down.
Send me an email and automatically 50 it failed over to the second available is all of my infrastructure.
The last thing I want to show you is multi value and hopefully this will not let me down and it will
work because with multi value I want to configure a method in Route 53 to give a different DNS answer
for every single request, and this is to avoid a single point of failure.
Any hacker who trying to reach and to find out the final IP address of my influence.
So let me show you how you do that.
If we believe those first and now go back and create a record and it will be a multi value click on
next the same configuration wwa3 hundred and defined multi value.
So it will be an IP address and the IP that I have let me turn on this machine first.
I have this IP for my region and I want to get the IP of this easy to an instance in two separate lines
will be possible.
I could assign a primary check and with health check in place in multi value it will use the fast record.
So it will be good idea.
Now if I keep my primary AC two IP address in the top, show me this in multi value.
So I'm going to choose a record and define and create.
Let me add this and define the second one or my second A-Z.
And this is not the primary you or it is mine if like and it works magically, I'm delighted.
So look back now to my website.
You need to refresh this many times to see an effect and now the multi value answer will start to be
in place with Route 5353 start to give you different responses based on different answers.
So let me, for example, open this in a private session.
I think my VPN is still in place and in the cache my VPN is connected and that's why I'm getting this
multi value.
Now I should be routed back again to us East one because my VPN enforces and the cache of Route 53.
Keep telling Route 53.
Give him the first of these.
Don't give him the first reason he is requesting the websites from India because geolocation route with
rules 53.
You need to work very slowly and you need to allocate enough time to test and to do the experiment.
But just to keep this video very short, I'm trying to do my best to wrap it up in this shot so you
can see now using another browser, I'm getting answer from you as East one B and this is without VPN
guys from this browser I'm getting answer from you as is when.
So this is the point of multi value.
So this is pretty much what kind of limitation of Amazon three is to basically use it as a cross region
of 11.
So it will make sure that your infrastructure that is deployed, for example, in Region eight and Region
B are highly available.
As you know, Amazon Rule 53, using a fail over logic to keep sending a health check to your infrastructure
in the region and a region within a specific timeframe.
If they didn't back no response, they would read that the traffic of all users to from region to region
B so they are start to not use region eight to accept any.
It's offering now little slope to the first job which is creating a highly available environment for
the cafe.
In this particular lab, you want to go and inspect a VPC, create an application load balancer, create
an order scaling your group and test application for pie.
I really.